.\" Created from Texinfo source by yat2m 1.50
.TH WATCHGNUPG 1 2024-03-04 "GnuPG 2.2.43" "GNU Privacy Guard 2.2"
.SH NAME
.B watchgnupg
\- Read and print logs from a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  watchgnupg
.RB [ \-\-force ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.I socketname

.SH DESCRIPTION
Most of the main utilities are able to write their log files to a Unix
Domain socket if configured that way.  \fBwatchgnupg\fP is a simple
listener for such a socket.  It ameliorates the output with a time stamp
and makes sure that long lines are not interspersed with log output from
other utilities.  This tool is not available for Windows.



\fBwatchgnupg\fP is commonly invoked as

.RS 2
.nf
watchgnupg \-\-force $(gpgconf \-\-list\-dirs socketdir)/S.log

.SH OPTIONS

\fBwatchgnupg\fP understands these options:


.TP
.B  \-\-force
Delete an already existing socket file.


.TP
.B  \-\-tcp \fIn\fP
Instead of reading from a local socket, listen for connects on TCP port
\fIn\fP.

.TP
.B  \-\-time\-only
Do not print the date part of the timestamp.

.TP
.B  \-\-verbose
Enable extra informational output.

.TP
.B  \-\-version
Print version of the program and exit.

.TP
.B  \-\-help
Display a brief help page and exit.

.P


.SH EXAMPLES

.RS 2
.nf
$ watchgnupg \-\-force \-\-time\-only $(gpgconf \-\-list\-dirs socketdir)/S.log
.fi
.RE

This waits for connections on the local socket
(e.g. \(oq\fI/home/foo/.gnupg/S.log\fP\(cq) and shows all log entries.  To
make this work the option \fBlog\-file\fP needs to be used with all
modules which logs are to be shown.  The suggested entry for the
configuration files is:

.RS 2
.nf
log\-file socket://
.fi
.RE

If the default socket as given above and returned by "echo $(gpgconf
\[en]list-dirs socketdir)/S.log" is not desired an arbitrary socket name
can be specified, for example \(oq\fIsocket:///home/foo/bar/mysocket\fP\(cq.
For debugging purposes it is also possible to do remote logging.  Take
care if you use this feature because the information is send in the
clear over the network.  Use this syntax in the conf files:

.RS 2
.nf
log\-file tcp://192.168.1.1:4711
.fi
.RE

You may use any port and not just 4711 as shown above; only IP
addresses are supported (v4 and v6) and no host names.  You need to
start \fBwatchgnupg\fP with the \fBtcp\fP option.  Note that
under Windows the registry entry
\fIHKCU\[rs]Software\[rs]GNU\[rs]GnuPG:DefaultLogFile\fP can be used to change the
default log output from \fBstderr\fP to whatever is given by that
entry.  However the only useful entry is a TCP name for remote
debugging.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgpg\fP(1),
\fBgpgsm\fP(1),
\fBgpg\-agent\fP(1),
\fBscdaemon\fP(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

.RS 2
.nf
info gnupg
.fi
.RE

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.








